Crime in Athens, Greece

Crime Index: 	55.76
Safety Index: 	44.24

Crime Index is an estimation of the overall level of crime in a given city or country. We consider crime levels lower than 20 as very low, crime levels between 20 and 40 as low, crime levels between 40 and 60 as moderate, crime levels between 60 and 80 as high, and crime levels higher than 80 as very high.
Safety index is, on the other way, quite the opposite of the crime index. If the city has a high safety index, it is considered very safe. 

Crime rates in Athens, Greece
Level of crime:	58.25	Moderate
Crime increasing in the past 3 years:	76.84	High
Worries home broken and things stolen:	57.15	Moderate
Worries being mugged or robbed:	53.53	Moderate
Worries car stolen:	46.96	Moderate
Worries things from car stolen:	59.05	Moderate
Worries attacked:	47.50	Moderate
Worries being insulted:	44.47	Moderate
Worries being subject to a physical attack because of your skin color, ethnic origin, gender or religion:	37.53	Low
Problem people using or dealing drugs:	63.28	High
Problem property crimes such as vandalism and theft:	63.64	High
Problem violent crimes such as assault and armed robbery:	49.75	Moderate
Problem corruption and bribery:	78.95	High

Safety in Athens, Greece
Safety walking alone during daylight:	67.01	High
Safety walking alone during night:	38.46	Low

Contributors: 868
Last update: July 2023
These data are based on perceptions of visitors of this website in the past 3 years.
If the value is 0, it means it is perceived as very low, and if the value is 100, it means it is perceived as very high. 

29 Comments so far
Trafficboss on Jun 17, 2023:
	I was in Athens for 6 days. Nearly got robbed twice in Attiki. Also never go to Acharness
Carol H on Jun 17, 2023:
	We arrived 6/15/23. Took hired driver from airport to our hotel. Streets blocked off due to riots. Driver puts us out 1 km from hotel. We had to take luggage thru riot got gassed by the police gassing the rioters and we were robbed. Tourist police would not allow us to say we were robbed on the report. All our cash, credit cards were stolen. We were afraid to tour Athens, so we got a flight out asap. Will never come back.
Anonymous on Feb 27, 2023:
	Guys go visit Omonia it is the safest neighborhood in Athens /j
PlagiaSkepsi on Jan 21, 2023:
	We were Europe's SAFEST country until 1991... Then we wrongfully accepted albanians (europe's archcriminals) and then georgians, pakistanis, algerians, moroccans etc. Yes, 90% of Greece's crimes (according to OFFICIAL stats) originates from those plus the gypsies. DO YOU REALLY WANT A SAFE EUROPE? You know the answer...
The Atgenean on Jan 18, 2023:
	Greek having grown up in Athens here
	While crime isn't uncommon, I think these estimates exaggerate the level for most areas & if you take the necessary precautions nothing will happen to you. Omonoia, Acharnes/Menidi & Zefyri are the most affected areas that you should avoid but if you're careful you should be safe outside these parts.
	I give crime index a 35, safety during daylight 75 & safety during night 60
Mika on Aug 19, 2022:
	I live in AThens/Centar.Kipseli,many years and never have any problem.
Anonymous on Oct 11, 2021:
	Athens is a very very dangerous city things are a lot worse then these numbers. My advise to tourists see the Parthenon and get the hell out there is not much to see but filth and the city has a smell of a public washroom. Bad experience
philip walker on Jun 27, 2021:
	I am a 57 year old Englishman who has lived for 12 years in central Athens, during this time I have never felt threatened or unsafe, and yet I have walked around extensively to many areas of the city that look rough or run down, always with a camera visible as I am a keen photographer. Having lived and worked in 11 large cities around the world including Caracas and Nairobi, I would like to state that Athens is safe if you obviously listen to local advice and take the normal precautions as a tourist in any big city particularly during the night.
Anonymous on Jun 15, 2021:
	Unfortunately this cradle of civilization is experiencing its worst decline
nikos on Nov 02, 2020:
	Generally in Athens and Greece have very high crime, stolen, attacks.
	Guns in Peristeri, Korydallos and Nikaia.
	I live in Athens and i want leave from Country, Mexico is safety if compare Athens.
Giorgos on Oct 20, 2020:
	Is the place that you live the center is safe but exarchia menidi and aspropyrgos is the place that you don't want to mess
Eww no on Jun 17, 2020:
	Dangerous city. I never recommend this place ! Even Kylie Jenner has been robbed in there. I am serious about it ! Don't ever come there, I'm still so angry about this. I had my phone, ipad stolen from the hotel that I booked!
	My english is bad! But man really that city is gross and dangerous! I never recommend!
Jurgen on May 02, 2020:
	Very very dangerous City.I will never go again.
Mitsos93 on Feb 16, 2020:
	I'm a Greek, living in Athens. It's an unsafe and ugly city, full of mentally ill people... You can see people screaming alone, many illegal immigrants, many junkies and many homeless. At the ghetto areas, sometimes you can hear gunshots even on daylight or get stabbed from thieves. Almost all of the (few) parks in the city, have been occupied by drug addicts and criminals. If you stay at the tourist areas, probably you will be fine. Just be aware of the pickpockets there...
Anonymous on Feb 13, 2020:
	I don't know what all say but when I visited greece I was robbed 3 times and the first by violence they hit me in the head. And sometimes the thieves can kill you with a knife only for 10euro..... Athens and some other cities is the problem in Greece when I visited the islands I understand that greece is safe countries if someone want to go in athens is only for parthenon. The other things are very strange and gringe
Anonymous on Feb 13, 2020:
	Athens isn’t particularly dangerous.
	Crime statistics point toward the fact that it’s actually quite a safe city for travelers—Athens is not included on lengthy lists of the world’s most dangerous cities.
	Heavy crimes like murder, rape etc its pretty low, probably Athens in that aspect is one of the safest cities in the world.
	Still, there are certain things that travelers to Athens should keep in mind to ensure the safest possible visit.
	Stay vigilant for pickpockets and other petty thieves, scammers, these are the most common crimes targeting travelers in Athens. Be especially cautious at crowded attractions, on public transportation, and in taxis, where drivers sometimes scam their passengers for higher fees. Generally though they're very helpful and safe. Plus you can use an app (taxi beat or uber) to get a taxi this way you always get the right rate.
	The most prominent form of crime in Athens is, as you might guess, pickpocketing. By all accounts, pickpocketing, purse snatching, and other forms of petty theft are common, especially at crowded tourist attractions, nightlife destinations, and on buses and trains, where you should take extra care to guard your belongings. Be particularly vigilant if someone seems like they’re trying to distract you; meanwhile, someone else may be reaching into your purse.
	The rest of Greece is Very safe especially the Islands.
	Enjoy your stay and the food! :)
Jesica on Dec 22, 2019:
	It is a country that you will see very weird things very different culture. The thinks is not so good the greeks must do something to fix their problems
Kimmy on Nov 06, 2019:
	As a Greek, I know that in Athens, there is a chance of 99% to get cheated or stolen by taxi drivers, pickpockets, beggars, walking floggers (flowers) blah blah blah. Especially in public transportation, touristic neighborhoods (aka Monastiraki), when you are chilling in a restaurant, a coffee shop, even in a dance club, or at the beach.
	To avoid an unpleasant situation, I would suggest you follow some basic rules.
	Before you get in a taxi, always ask for the price. The daily fixed-rate from the airport to the city is 38-40€, the nightly about €60. If a driver force you to pay more, then you should call the police (tel.100)
	Don't hold a lot of money on you; much better use your credit card.
	Avoid a luxurious appearance. Expensive items (jewelry, watches, smartphones, etc.) attract criminals.
	NEVER leave your mobile on the table of a restaurant or a coffee shop, bar, club, etc
	Leave your passport at the hotel!
	Don't trust street people that unexpectedly approach you. Leave them behind, and don't talk. Sometimes they are working as a team, so one person is keeping you busy, while the other is removing your valuable items. It's ok for someone to be rude in Greece, don't worry!
	Women avoid taking a handbag if you don't need it.
	In a restaurant, pub, bar, whatever, ask for the menu...so you can check the prices.
	Women solely, who are planning to visit the Greek islands, must be aware of rapists when they are costuming alcohol. Don't trust every dude who is talking to you in a bar.
	During the night, please avoid visiting Philopappos hill and generally don't walk in sketchy neighborhoods alone in the dark.
	That's all. I hope that I didn't shock you; otherwise, Athens is a bitcheerful city. Enjoy
Ted on Oct 23, 2019:
	I am Greek (Athenian) currently living and working in the US for the last couple of decades, but go back almost every year to visit. Athens ranks as the 45th safest city out of all the cities in the world, way ahead of many US and European cities. If you visit Athens I would recommend that you stick to the tourist sites (if you are not Greek), same with most other cities, and use common sense. Limit your night excursions if you can or are paranoid. If you don't just go out with others as a group to places locals recommend or go themselves. Always ask the taxi driver which areas are safe and how late you can safely stay out, or if you can walk around past a certain time. They are well aware of what goes on and where, and will give you good advice. Same with the people working at your hotel. I would highly recommend you spend most of your stay in Greece at the islands which are extremely safe. There are so many beautiful islands, we try to visit at least 2 different ones every time we are there. We only stay at our place in Athens for a couple of days and 2 weeks at different islands. Some times we revisit islands but we limit our time in Athens, because after all Athens is a big city, and we don't like vacationing in cities. We like the peace and tranquility of most Greek isles and their beaches. And the only places in Athens we go to eat when we are there, are the restaurants by the water with ocean view (Glyfada, Pasalimani, etc.) which are safe, and we always call for a taxi, and avoid walking around at night, unless it's a Square (Platia) full of stores and people like our local one in Nea Smirni (Athens suburb), or other Squares in the northern (more expensive) suburbs where we have relatives. Athens is not the city it used to be when I used to walk 1+ miles to school by myself starting at the age of 7 and noone bothered me. That was 40+ years ago. Unfortunately poor Albanians and other immigrants have moved in the last 20 years with bad intentions.. The pick pocket, rob, burglarize or worse... every opportunity they get. It's not the (safe) Athens of my youth. To me it's just another city now. Visit the Acropolis, a couple of museums, and then hit the islands! That's where all the Greeks and half the world spend their vacation, so why stay in Athens for more than a couple of days?
Anonymous on Oct 18, 2019:
	Athens the city zombie.Drugs, jungies, pain, poors, imigrans, and politicans that thief peoples money poor greece the country of democracy the country that born all this things tha we have today now is the place of gypsies of europe
Giorgos on Oct 18, 2019:
	Is that the guy say if you want to come to greece go to an island no athens and you that you say you are walking in 2 o clock to do a walk to omonoia or likabitos or panormou gkazi haha dont mes with athenians if tou threated you will die if you do your walk like a normal guy you can go out anytime you want.if you dont live in the strreet life do not say bullshit in athens i see the most weird things.. The are a lot and as a greek i say that if you are good you can go out anutime you want i if you bullshit you are dead in all the countries you can go out anytime tou want logikk
Anonymous on Oct 16, 2019:
	dont understand why people are crying about how dangeruous it is? I can freely walk around at 2 o clock at night
germanflag on Oct 14, 2019:
	Greece as a country is so beautiful thousands islands to party and you go athens?thats weird
Anonymous on Oct 13, 2019:
	Greece is not safey friend live the crie life idiott
MF on Oct 08, 2019:
	16 years in Greece. Never had a single problem. One of the safest cities I know (besides Geneva where nothing ever happens anyway). Of course, as someone complained about, you go to Exarcheia on a Saturday evening when there is some jubilee... well whould you go to the deep spanish quarter in Miami for dinner, St.Denis in Paris? Numbers confirm it is very safe. Just enjoy.
Anonymous on Oct 05, 2019:
	I was in athens with my family for holidays amd we decide to go to the center. It was a beautiful day before the chaos begin we decide to go for a coffe in exarcheia square. It was quiet before a team of holligans arive with axes and molotov. The square in about 10-15 minutes it was like war zone fires and rocks fall from anywhere and the most funny thing of all this is that i was robbed and i was inside the coffe shop.Athens has a lot of problems and the goverment must do something this is not a picture of a city you go to the center the only thing tha you see is drugs trush.in all the countries that i have visited Greece is the worst it is very beautiful but the crime is more than unbealivable
Anonymous on Sep 28, 2019:
	The city is like the hell. Very crime city especially in the center drugs,weapons,a lot of jungies fires and something important the peoole are sick!! I see a lot of things in this capital the next that i will visit grecce no athens choose an island or something diferent
James harley on Sep 18, 2019:
	As a tourist i find athens very dangerous especally now with new goverment.. The people are sick it is the worst country to live.....
Anonymous on Sep 15, 2019:
	Its where you live... If you live in athens you have a fu... Life. People are crazy the crime in very high level. In my opinion because i live 1 year and i left i am from russia and i think is a dangerous capital in over the word if you go there and you will understand no for holidays to live and you wil see sorry for bad english
