Crime in Berlin, Germany

Crime Index: 	43.62
Safety Index: 	56.38

Crime Index is an estimation of the overall level of crime in a given city or country. We consider crime levels lower than 20 as very low, crime levels between 20 and 40 as low, crime levels between 40 and 60 as moderate, crime levels between 60 and 80 as high, and crime levels higher than 80 as very high.
Safety index is, on the other way, quite the opposite of the crime index. If the city has a high safety index, it is considered very safe. 

Crime rates in Berlin, Germany
Level of crime:	46.29	Moderate
Crime increasing in the past 3 years:	69.77	High
Worries home broken and things stolen:	38.24	Low
Worries being mugged or robbed:	39.65	Low
Worries car stolen:	32.58	Low
Worries things from car stolen:	38.81	Low
Worries attacked:	43.11	Moderate
Worries being insulted:	49.55	Moderate
Worries being subject to a physical attack because of your skin color, ethnic origin, gender or religion:	33.59	Low
Problem people using or dealing drugs:	60.24	High
Problem property crimes such as vandalism and theft:	54.74	Moderate
Problem violent crimes such as assault and armed robbery:	38.67	Low
Problem corruption and bribery:	31.74	Low

Safety in Berlin, Germany
Safety walking alone during daylight:	77.36	High
Safety walking alone during night:	50.67	Moderate

Contributors: 746
Last update: July 2023
These data are based on perceptions of visitors of this website in the past 3 years.
If the value is 0, it means it is perceived as very low, and if the value is 100, it means it is perceived as very high. 

25 Comments so far
Anonymous on Jul 20, 2023:
Crime is much higher in reality than most european cities
Anonymous on Feb 06, 2023:
	I have lived in Germany since 2009, and Berlin since 2013. Without a doubt has the city become more dangerous. Not only have I witnessed countless acts of aggression, small and large in recent years, i have also had my nose broken walking on Ku'damm on a Saturday afternoon at 18.00 by a group of young men. And I am also sorry to reinforce the cliche, but it was a group with a middle eastern background (but strong Berlin accents).
	Certain areas are absolute no-go's - Neukolln Sonnenallee. Absolutely intolerant and frankly dangerous. Avoid like the plague!
NYC to Berlin on Jan 19, 2023:
	Nein.
	I've been to Berlin (and other cities in Germany,) before and know people who live in Berlin. The increase in crime has happening internationally--especially with the beginning of the Covid-19 era. Rightwing zealots can whine all they want about immigration but it's actually the desperation fueled by the spiraling crisis of capitalism. Trust me, crime is much worse here in NYC than it is in your lovely garden of Berlin. I don't doubt that some neighborhoods have gotten rough, but facts are facts--social services, low cost of living, and a relatively strong labor movement are the only things keeping you all from ruin.
Anonymous on Jan 10, 2023:
	I am born in Berlin and living here since 50 years. Berlin has failed districts, like Neukölln, Wedding. and some Parts of Tiergarten and Kreuzberg. In the last 7 years we have much more unemployed and homeless people which living on the streets and in parks. That we had have never before so many. And we have much more drug crime. Often You can have trouble with some aggressive people in the Metro or on the street, and many of younger people have a knife . I get trouble with a young drug dealer, which sales his drug in a Metro wagon on am 11:00 and did he very aggressive. He hit me, no one helps me, and the Metro guard going very fast away.
	And this is not one thing. Many of people in my neighborhood told me crazy stories. No, this town is not so safe as it was for some years.
Anonymous on Jan 05, 2023:
	anyone still has any doubts about the crime following the latest firework attacks on the police and the ambulance on New Year's eve?
	You can thank the far left for creating this parallel world.
Anonymous on Aug 02, 2022:
	in 1 month of vacation I got robbed in broad daylight at an ATM next to a Synangogue and the police didnt even care only told me a patrol would come for me, a friend got assaulted by 3 men in the tram at night on his way home because he wouldnt give them 10euros, another friend also almost got robbed in front of a restaurant. Berlin is a shithole stay away if you can.
Anonymous on Jul 05, 2022:
	This page is all lies. Berlin is probably one of the safest cities in the world. I have walked around the "worst" places in the middle of the night with 0 fear. The only interesting thing you see is the occasional insane drug addict hobo.
	The "values" here are literally just averages of what people send in at the survey thing, so genius American /pol/ users that heard about the "rapefugee" storm and still think its 2015 flood it with the results they want and then turn around to use them as an argument in the comments.
Lex on Jun 17, 2022:
	This is exactly like in the state of Florida in the USA
Ich on Sep 29, 2021:
	It depends very much on the neighborhood. There are few hotspots for trouble, just avoid them, especially at night.
Anonymous on Aug 24, 2021:
	i might be moving to berlin for university and to be honest, i am getting very concerned for my safety just by reading the comment section.
Anonymous on Jul 08, 2021:
	Every day another stabbing. Females dont feel safe here for the past years. Its getting worse as the data shows
Compare? on May 03, 2021:
	Here you go:
	Kabul, Afghanistan Crime Index: 76.06
	Damascus, Syria: 68.40
	Lagos, Nigeria: 64.82
	Tripoli, Libya: 64.27
	Baghdad, Iraq: 63.29
	Berlin, Germany: 41.14
	Zurich, Switzerland: 16.40
	So yes, Berlin is safer than those cities in Africa and Middle East. For now.
	Continue importing criminals without background checks and you’ll see the same level of crime on the German streets.
	Berlin: Crime increasing in the past 3 years: 68.46 (High)
	What a coincidence!
Compare on Apr 20, 2021:
	Compare these stats to other major cities around the world. Learn how to understand. It never fails that those who state that others can’t think independently are in fact the ones that are projecting their own inefficiency on others. Spend time and look at how these numbers compare and do so without an agenda
anonymous on Apr 17, 2021:
	Thankfully there're still people who think independently and don't buy into the far leftist propaganda in the mass media.
	Crime is real and it's imported. Rapefugees not welcome!
Anonymous on Apr 17, 2021:
	It's very embarrassing that this website allows rightwingers to pollute their site with propaganda, you might aswell seek travel advice from 4chan.
anonymous on Mar 31, 2021:
	It's true and very sad what's happening to Berlin and Germany since they allowed those millions of fake refugees to come.
	Import the third world and you become the third world. Skyrocketing crime is just one of the consequences.
	It's not about race or religion, but about thorough background checks of those who you let into the country.
	Those who raped hundreds of German women in Cologne in 2015 would have been in jail had it happened in Saudi Arabia.
desta kiflemariam on Jan 05, 2021:
	As I have read there is crime in Berlin. BUt this should be minimize as it is not good for the reputation of the city.
Anonymous on Oct 30, 2020:
	no no, they are mostly right. you go in their countries and they behave. you bring over 2 million people with different culture, gangs will form. statistics dont lie
Madiha on Jun 09, 2020:
	I have lived in different parts of Berlin over the last 8 years. other then petty crimes like a wallet being stolen or bikes being stolen never faced anything related to violence. S
	Ashamed to read comments from illiterate people who are equating Africans and Muslims like they are both races. Religions and races are very different things. Crime mostly has only one cause, poverty resulting in bad neighbourhoods.
	Same as any other metropolitan city in the world berlin has some upper and some lower neighbourhoods, which can result in differing crimes. Has nothing to do with religion/race. Period
Anonymous on Mar 31, 2020:
	I can confirm what "Dr. Bolja e Madhe" mentioned below. Subway stations have become quite dangerous especially at night in some zones (wedding, kreuzberg, reinickendorf etc). Also at night buses may not be that safe especially if a bit empty. There are groups (especially of Arabic / Muslims) that have no respect for nobody and may harass you (if you are a women, double your caution). There is also the drunk and drugs guys that you can find especially in subways (even though those are generally harmless). I have also noticed some vandalism including destroying bicycles and even cars.
Dr. Bolja e Madhe on Feb 08, 2020:
	In Berlin is very dangerous in the subway stations. The city has so much people with hate. Not only Arabic people but there are many German people that are bad. I mean the Arabic people have nothing to do with religion so don't insult it. I live here since five years and I must say that after 20:00 is dangerous to walk in zones like Kreuzberg and Wedding because of groups that maybe talk or fight with you.
HopeForChange on Nov 04, 2019:
	Sadly the crime has risen dramatically in Berlin due to a huge influx of immigrants of african and middle eastern origin. This is not racist speak whatsoever, it is plain, bald, inconvenient fact. I know because I lived here for years, and then came back 10 years later. Incomparable.
Anonymous on Sep 21, 2019:
	Living in Berlin for 5 years, not seen any violent act, wife getting home alone at night. Safer than many cities in the US
Anonymous on Sep 13, 2019:
	I went to Berlin during summer vacation. Got attacked on my way to the hotel, got a fractured arm and a dislocated knee for my trouble. 4/10 the food almost made up for it.
	Seriously though, AVOID this city at all costs!
Anonymous on Jul 22, 2019:
	well I am not sure if it is that criminal compared to other places in the world but I used to live in Berlin and my house got broken into and they stole all my gold and money.And the second time they tried to break into my house again but I have seen them and they ran away and they never got caught .
