Crime in Budapest, Hungary

Crime Index: 	34.56
Safety Index: 	65.44

Crime Index is an estimation of the overall level of crime in a given city or country. We consider crime levels lower than 20 as very low, crime levels between 20 and 40 as low, crime levels between 40 and 60 as moderate, crime levels between 60 and 80 as high, and crime levels higher than 80 as very high.
Safety index is, on the other way, quite the opposite of the crime index. If the city has a high safety index, it is considered very safe. 

Crime rates in Budapest, Hungary
Level of crime:	31.11	Low
Crime increasing in the past 3 years:	46.38	Moderate
Worries home broken and things stolen:	31.47	Low
Worries being mugged or robbed:	27.97	Low
Worries car stolen:	31.88	Low
Worries things from car stolen:	38.36	Low
Worries attacked:	27.71	Low
Worries being insulted:	33.05	Low
Worries being subject to a physical attack because of your skin color, ethnic origin, gender or religion:	26.40	Low
Problem people using or dealing drugs:	38.39	Low
Problem property crimes such as vandalism and theft:	44.69	Moderate
Problem violent crimes such as assault and armed robbery:	22.89	Low
Problem corruption and bribery:	71.19	High

Safety in Budapest, Hungary
Safety walking alone during daylight:	84.49	Very High
Safety walking alone during night:	61.71	High

Contributors: 687
Last update: July 2023
These data are based on perceptions of visitors of this website in the past 3 years.
If the value is 0, it means it is perceived as very low, and if the value is 100, it means it is perceived as very high. 

8 Comments so far
John Wick on Jun 16, 2023:
	Well, well...
	It's difficult to start...
	To be honest, I loved this city so much that I introduced this city and its sightseeings for many foreigners.
	I always recommended the capital of Hungary, as it was a warm and friendly city. I loved the atmosphere, the bridges, Danube and the suburbs like Dunakeszi. I still like Margaret Island, Óbudai Island and Citadel. They are still worth to visit at least once in a lifetime. As for politics and life in general, it became a serious topic. On the one hand, you are not allowed to reveal your opinion of politics or economy, or if you do so, your life can get in danger. On the other hand, it is more and more dangerous to write about the truth, and easier to keep secrets and walk away. It is almost impossible to have some privacy as "Big Brother" is always watching you. The real problem is that multinational companies put a huge pressure on government, and government put a big pressure on police and people. In general, I consider myself a friendly and warm-hearted guy in this city, that is unfortunately a negative point today. If you are not rude to people, they will be rude to you. You cannot trust in your friends, police or relatives... For me it is a tragedy to write, as I am a positive person, and always will be, so I can write I am still a believer and I hope things can get better. At least soup gulas is really delicious, so I can at least recommend that. :)
michael on Sep 13, 2022:
	very unsafe place. i was attacked 2 times and being threatened in the metro by police. Budapest is not a aafe city
Anonymous on Dec 18, 2020:
	As a native I will advice immigrant Muslims who like to wear those religius attire to avoid 8th district of the city ....very bad racist ..I witness last year a guy may be Turkish or iranian beaten at evening ...feel bad for them
Anonymous on Dec 18, 2020:
	If you are black from whichever continent , avoid Hungary like a plague. It used to be a nice place until recently thanks to populist government.
Anon on Sep 13, 2020:
	Relatively safe, just make sure not to use random taxis on the streets as they can scam you or be dangerous. Use only Bolt or licensed Taxi.
	In terms of robbery, be vigilant of your belongings and avoid homeless people and drunkards.
Anonymous on Sep 29, 2019:
	I have been robbed in a store, someone came in and bumped into me (willingly as I later realized) while I looked at him surprised he took my wallet from my purse. Several of my visitors were also robbed, mostly on trams (especially #2, 4 and 6). The robbers try to distract you and steal your valuables while you do not pay attention.
	Increasing racism and xenophobia, fueled by media and government discourses is also a concern.
Lily on Jul 19, 2019:
	I had an experience in the metro station in which a woman accosted me for not having a ticket whilst looking for a machine to buy one. She took away my passport and refused to reason with me as she wrote down my name and demands an HUF 8000 fine. In the end I just walked away as not only would she have tried to steal the ‘fine’ from me but keeping my passport would have been illegal. Be vigilant in Hungary as the public services do not care about you, nor do they show any attempt of hospitality -on the tube or not- when you try and interact.
Eric on Jul 05, 2019:
	I had very few problems in terms of robbery and theft. It happened just once i was robbed, but honestly it was late night, I was drunk and I did not take basic care of my valuables. The city is indeed very safe in these terms.
	It is much worse with drunk people harressment, insults, racism, and this include also police forces which are definitely not taking care of the matter.
