Crime in Helsinki, Finland

Crime Index: 	24.49
Safety Index: 	75.51

Crime Index is an estimation of the overall level of crime in a given city or country. We consider crime levels lower than 20 as very low, crime levels between 20 and 40 as low, crime levels between 40 and 60 as moderate, crime levels between 60 and 80 as high, and crime levels higher than 80 as very high.
Safety index is, on the other way, quite the opposite of the crime index. If the city has a high safety index, it is considered very safe. 

Crime rates in Helsinki, Finland
Level of crime:	21.86	Low
Crime increasing in the past 3 years:	56.91	Moderate
Worries home broken and things stolen:	15.90	Very Low
Worries being mugged or robbed:	21.46	Low
Worries car stolen:	15.72	Very Low
Worries things from car stolen:	22.93	Low
Worries attacked:	24.95	Low
Worries being insulted:	26.42	Low
Worries being subject to a physical attack because of your skin color, ethnic origin, gender or religion:	22.52	Low
Problem people using or dealing drugs:	34.28	Low
Problem property crimes such as vandalism and theft:	31.00	Low
Problem violent crimes such as assault and armed robbery:	20.95	Low
Problem corruption and bribery:	14.86	Very Low

Safety in Helsinki, Finland
Safety walking alone during daylight:	86.75	Very High
Safety walking alone during night:	70.34	High

Contributors: 374
Last update: July 2023
These data are based on perceptions of visitors of this website in the past 3 years.
If the value is 0, it means it is perceived as very low, and if the value is 100, it means it is perceived as very high. 

13 Comments so far
Anonymous on Jun 16, 2023:
	>Generally try to avoid the eastern part of the city such as Vuosaari, Puotila and mellumäki
	My favorite Helsinki hotel is right about there. Stayed there several times, never had any problems in the neighbourhood. Granted, never walked around at night. One time saw some Hitler posters in the neighbourhood, but those were quickly torn off and taken down (in a couple of hours).
Anonymous on Jun 08, 2023:
	Sorry pia but you prove the point tht Finland is racist with " you have the rest of the world to go and be dark in"... like it's a choice you confirm the racist stereotype.
pia on Jul 14, 2022:
	"As a black woman the best Nordic country is Sweden, then Denmark and Iceland..." who gives a toss? You have most of the world to go and be dark in....oh wait, you won't get special treatment anywhere else will you. As you clearly didn't in Finland where you were treated as an equal but that's not enough for you.
Anonymous on Feb 17, 2022:
	Crime is low. Extremely low. However, when it does happen you can be sure that no one will step up and help you. It is part of Finnish culture to not intervene on other people business. Actually, Finnish people do intervene on other people business but just not when there is conflict.
	This is a part of Finland that is not discussed. You can be surrounded by strangers, get harassed or punched by someone and other people would just ignore. No one will even call a police for you.
	There is a reason why family bonds in Finland are weak, and why the culture is unsocial. It's a breeding ground for parallel societies, just like in Sweden. In fact, knife crime and gang activity has increased lately. Just keep these in mind if you want to move in.
Anonymous on Feb 03, 2022:
	As a Canadian once living in Winnipeg, Edmonton, Calgary, and Victoria. I have never witnessed a crime in Helsinki, idk what all these ppl on here are yapping about, i seen Helsinki's worst area And have concluded that is probably better than half the areas in winnipeg. I have never witnessed racism, and i am part native american. The only time i seen people fighting was east indians fighting each other drunk in a park, or taxi drivers. Best decision i ever made in my life was moving to Finland.
Anonymous on Jun 28, 2021:
	As long as you avoid Eastern Helsinki you'll be fine
Anonymous on Jun 20, 2021:
	Finland is the most racist "Scandinavian" country due to the fact, most Finns are a mixture of backwards Eastern Europeans,Sami and a little Nordic blood, due to its close proximity to Russia, Estonia etc, their population has some of the worst people you will ever encounter, fascists,uneducated, alcoholic hillbillies are all found there, and most real Scandinavians don't consider Finland a Nordic country, there is a little controversy about that and they lose it if you mention they are not Scandinavians.
	The only Finns I know (biggest ethnicity in Sweden apart from Swedes) are very nice and humble people plus true Finns , but when you go to Finland you will encounter those mentioned above and most have a huge problem, not only with blacks but anyone who isn't white.
	Know so many Arabs,Somalis,East Asians etc that have moved from both Finland and Norway due to racism and now call Sweden home
	As a black woman the best Nordic country is Sweden, then Denmark and Iceland, Norway isn't' the great utopia everyone thinks it is.You need to visit to see their true colours which are not very nice.
Briony on Feb 26, 2021:
	I’m an American who has been living in Helsinki for nearly two years with my husband. We live right in the city center. I have to say the city is so safe. You can walk the streets at 2 am alone as a female & feel perfectly safe. You might get hit on a by a drunk person but they are harmless, just annoying. There is a park next to our apartment building & If I have to take my dog out in the middle of the night the park is super safe! I’m sure there is some petty crime but violent crime is extremely rare!!
lainen on Dec 01, 2020:
	i would say Oulu is the most dangerous city in Finland followed by Helsinki
ukko on Oct 18, 2020:
	Eastern Helsinki is an absolute shithole. You literally have a street renamed to Mogadishu street
Dean on May 28, 2020:
	I was in Finland 50 years ago..... and the whole of Scandinavia was a haven of liberal tolerance, civilisation and civic-mindedness....now, as I peruse the crime statistics on various sites it's obvious that large-scale immigration has had the same effect on Western culture as in France, Britain and Germany. If only the government could welcome the genuine refugees and expel the majority of parasitic profiteers whose only reason for migrating is to sponge off the benefits. self-imposed segregation and the practice of barbaric cultures will continue to erode everything that made Scandinavia a wonderful and envied place to live. Finland has no historical reason to feel any "white guilt" related to colonialism.... so why copy the woke self-hating reflexes of other Western countries? I'm sure the conditions in Finnish prisons are really horrific and deter the most savage criminals from committing their narcissistic crimes LOLOL
Tore Välimäki on Nov 02, 2019:
	Im from Helsinki so listen up. Generally try to avoid the eastern part of the city such as Vuosaari, Puotila and mellumäki. You stay away from there you will be fine.
Can Toprak on Aug 19, 2019:
	I am loving Finland.When l have visited l was feeling my self very good.finnish people very kind and slowlySpeaking.ın my travel time to helsinki l didnt see any bad subject.
	I hope öne day lwillLiveFinland.
