Crime in Warsaw, Poland

Crime Index: 	25.63
Safety Index: 	74.37

Crime Index is an estimation of the overall level of crime in a given city or country. We consider crime levels lower than 20 as very low, crime levels between 20 and 40 as low, crime levels between 40 and 60 as moderate, crime levels between 60 and 80 as high, and crime levels higher than 80 as very high.
Safety index is, on the other way, quite the opposite of the crime index. If the city has a high safety index, it is considered very safe. 

Crime rates in Warsaw, Poland
Level of crime:	20.04	Low
Crime increasing in the past 3 years:	37.40	Low
Worries home broken and things stolen:	21.27	Low
Worries being mugged or robbed:	21.25	Low
Worries car stolen:	22.48	Low
Worries things from car stolen:	27.72	Low
Worries attacked:	25.02	Low
Worries being insulted:	28.46	Low
Worries being subject to a physical attack because of your skin color, ethnic origin, gender or religion:	27.12	Low
Problem people using or dealing drugs:	24.46	Low
Problem property crimes such as vandalism and theft:	39.11	Low
Problem violent crimes such as assault and armed robbery:	14.77	Very Low
Problem corruption and bribery:	41.82	Moderate

Safety in Warsaw, Poland
Safety walking alone during daylight:	88.47	Very High
Safety walking alone during night:	66.87	High

Contributors: 581
Last update: July 2023
These data are based on perceptions of visitors of this website in the past 3 years.
If the value is 0, it means it is perceived as very low, and if the value is 100, it means it is perceived as very high.

16 Comments so far
bigben on May 17, 2023:
	I'm surprised these of "turkish teens" and "north african gangs". We, in Warsaw, really don't have much black african immigrants. These people don't want to work and they want social benefits. In Poland these benefits are quite small (if you are not resident). It's not enough for life in here. Most directions to Warsaw are west-central Asia, like Georgia, Armenia. Some from Middle East. There are a lot people from Bangladesh, India (and these areas), and of course, because of war, Ukraine. Most of them are working (taxi drivers, food couriers, and mostly jobs where specialization is not needed), but their temper is mostly unapriopriate which makes conflicts. They are quite organised, and they keep jobs for their compatriots. Mostly there is no solidarity with Poles. There was a month ago situation, where taxi driver from (probably) Georgia beat up an actor Marcin Bosak, because this taxi driver ran over him and his child. Actor protested. So driver got out of car, and beat him up. "The further east you go, the greater wilderness of the people."
	But for now, there are not enough of them to make their own rules on the street, but probably, if nobody stops uncontrolled immigration, which is allowed by the goverment, it is going to change soon.
MB on Mar 20, 2023:
	Those comments below are silly. Things such as "Turkish teens with machete" or "North African gangs" simply does not exists here. we don't have enough immigrants, and those who are here are too afraid of locals to commit crime.
Monica S on Jan 27, 2023:
	I got assaulted with a machete and got robbed by some Turkish teens. People are nice though
Jay on Dec 08, 2022:
	I got robbed in the center during daytime by a North African gang. All big European cities are becoming more dangerous
Feli on Oct 12, 2022:
	There’s a huge difference between north and south Praga, I’ve lived in Praga Południe (Gocław) for 25 years and often wander close to midnight and I have NEVER in my entire life been stopped by anyone. But if you are a foreigner, you might want to sadly avoid this area. Praga Północ is a different story, way more dangerous
Leon on Oct 02, 2022:
	Most of the data is quite old and gives bad information. Warsaw's crime rate has increased a lot! Gangs, robberies and drug use
Alan on May 29, 2022:
	Im quite surprised by these comments to be honest. Have you ever been in the streets of Ursynow or Praga? These areas are extremly rough... And the center is filled with junkies and homeless people just like London
Jamal on May 29, 2022:
	Warsaw has increasingly more dangerous districts Ursynów (south side) and Wola (west side). There's more and more drug dealing and crime in Ursynów.
Maciej on Dec 28, 2021:
	Warsaw and Poland generally are very, very safe places.
WPalmer on Aug 17, 2021:
	Warsaw is safe….even the Praga district…even Szmulowizna. As for the homophobia? I’m a member of LGBT and it’s not that bad. Most people don’t care. The ones that do are just vocal about it, which is sometime shocking, but in other countries you just don’t know who is homophobic. Go out. Party at some of the nicest clubs in Europe, and don’t worry.
Frederick on Aug 31, 2020:
	Very safe city Even Praga is mostly safe today Love Warsaw Everyone should visit in my opinion
Edwar Makhoul on May 22, 2020:
	I would like to say that Warsaw is usually SAFE but avoid dark places and avoid walking alone at Night
	Avoid Praga District; avoid homeless people; avoid Drunk and Narcotic People
	Better to avoid Night Buses and Night Metro as Violence could happen and attacks
	Mugging happens in Warsaw during the Night at the Bus Stations in Centrum 01 near Marszalkowska and Nowogrodska streets
	Usually better to avoid criminals in Warsaw when they ask you for money, Cigarettes and other stuff
	Avoid Football Stadiums and the Hooligans
	Avoid Night Clubs and go home in a Group at Night and call Uber and Taxi
Dyd on Jan 05, 2020:
	a lot of weird comments here. I grew up in Berlin, lived in Warsaw for close to 20 years and currently stay in London, traveling every month back to the Polish capital. The city is one of the safest capital cities in Europe. Period. Look at crime reports and compare what is happening right now in the West. The worst that can happen to you in Warsaw is you get punched in the face and robbed - IF you walk in the middle of the night, alone through some dodgy streets. In London or Paris you can get killed at daylight in the city center. Yes, Polish tend to be less tolerant towards LGBT, Muslims and also quite rude (for British standards) but thats simply cultural differences explained in some comments below.
Mike on Dec 22, 2019:
	probably the safest city in Europe by now
	reading some comments below about how unsafe Warsaw is make me laugh
	I live here since 21 years and never had any kind of dangerous situation
	but yes Poles are homophobes and don't like foreigners that come to make trouble
	anyway in Warsaw I feel safe anywhere anytime
Anonymous on Nov 21, 2019:
	It's indeed not a very safe city if you're LGBT, just as the rest of Poland. This country is very homophobic. I don't like it, so I'll never visit it. Conservative countries like this one are the worst in this world.
Liam on Oct 10, 2019:
	im a small 19 year old guy and i can walk around warsaw at night alone i do it everynight i go through the "roughest" areas and never had any problems.. as long if you dont stare at people you wont have problems just mind your own buisness ;)
